README.md, before:

### Syllabus for CS 5439

# Syllabus for CS 5439

Welcome to CS 5439, Practicum in Computer Security. The goal is to learn
about computer security as seen in practice. The class can be taken as a supplement to
the security survey course CS 5435, or by itself. 

For Fall 2018 the practicum will focus on the technology-related threat models
that arise in intimate partner violence (IPV), which is sexual, physical,
financial, technological, or emotional violence against an intimate partner. IPV
is experienced by roughly one quarter of women and one sixth of men at some
point in their lives.  We will learn about how abusers exploit technology to spy
on, harass, or otherwise harm their victims.  We will investigate how security
mechanism design fails to account for attackers with intimate knowledge of the
target and physical access to devices. We will explore ways to improve
technology to better empower (potential) victims.  Homeworks will be designed to
not only gain understanding and appreciation of computer security mechanisms,
but also to produce materials useful in practice for advocates and survivors of
technology abuse.  


Lectures: Wednesdays, 9:30am-10:45am

Classroom: Bloomberg Center 161

Instructor: Tom Ristenpart (https://rist.tech.cornell.edu)

Office hours: By appointment

TA: Diana Freed dlf92@cornell.edu (https://infosci.cornell.edu/content/freed)

Office hours: By appointment


### Pre-requisites

Students should have knowledge of contemporary consumer technologies
(smartphones, social networking apps, etc.).

### Requirements

The class will involve a combination of lectures, in-class exercises, readings,
and homeworks. Readings for a lecture should be completed before lecture. All homework assignments should be submitted by midnight of the Sunday prior to the next class meeting. You'll be graded according to the following:

* Participation: 20%
* Homeworks:  80% (each homework will count an equal amount)

There will likely be opportunities for extra credit, as well.  



### Background reading and Lecture notes

For an easy introduction to some of the issues, check out a mainstream [press article we wrote](https://www.vox.com/the-big-idea/2018/5/21/17374434/intimate-partner-violence-spyware-domestic-abusers-apple-google),
  and some
  [coverage of our work](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/19/technology/phone-apps-stalking.html)
   in the NY Times. These articles provide a good overview of a subset of the
  tech issues we will discuss in the class, namely spyware. For more in-depth discussion, see our 
  [IPV Tech Research group website](https://ipvtechresearch.org/) and [research papers](https://www.ipvtechresearch.org/post/publications/). 




## Lecture schedule

A very preliminary schedule is shown below. It will be updated with topics and associated
readings as we progress.

| Date |  Topic  |  Speaker | Readings | Homework |
|------|---------|----------|----------|----------|
| Aug 29 | Intro & overview | Tom | |
| Sep 5 | IPV 101  | Hannah Pennington (OCDV) | [Freed et al. 2018](https://www.ipvtechresearch.org/pubs/a046-freed.pdf)  | [HW1](https://github.com/freed18/IPVpedia/wiki/Homework-1) due 9/2 by midnight|
| Sep 12 | Device monitoring   | Tom  | [Freed et al. 2018](https://www.ipvtechresearch.org/pubs/stalkers-paradise-intimate.pdf) | |
| Sep 19 | Spyware apps   |  Tom | [Chatterjee et al. 2018](https://www.ipvtechresearch.org/pubs/spyware.pdf) | |
| Sep 26 | TBA   | Andrew Sta. Ana (New York Law School, Day One)| |
| Oct 3 | Internet of things | Tom  |  |
| Oct 10 | Account compromise | Tom   | |
| Oct 17 | Abusive messages/content  | Tom  |
| Oct 24 | Information disclosure  (``doxxing'', non-consensual intimate imagery, fake accounts) | Tom  | | |
| Oct 31 |  Online harassment cases, the law | [Carrie Goldberg](http://www.cagoldberglaw.com/)  | | |
| Nov 7 | TBA |   | | |
| Nov 14 |Prosecuting stalking and other abuse  | Michelle Kaminsky (Kings County DA)  | | |
| Nov 21 | TBA  |  | | |
| Nov 28 |  TBA  |  | | |

Commit message:

Added intro slides and updated grading to reflect third credit

README.md, after:

### Syllabus for CS 5439

# Syllabus for CS 5439

Welcome to CS 5439, Practicum in Computer Security. The goal is to learn
about computer security as seen in practice. The class can be taken as a supplement to
the security survey course CS 5435, or by itself. 

For Fall 2018 the practicum will focus on the technology-related threat models
that arise in intimate partner violence (IPV), which is sexual, physical,
financial, technological, or emotional violence against an intimate partner. IPV
is experienced by roughly one quarter of women and one sixth of men at some
point in their lives.  We will learn about how abusers exploit technology to spy
on, harass, or otherwise harm their victims.  We will investigate how security
mechanism design fails to account for attackers with intimate knowledge of the
target and physical access to devices. We will explore ways to improve
technology to better empower (potential) victims.  Homeworks will be designed to
not only gain understanding and appreciation of computer security mechanisms,
but also to produce materials useful in practice for advocates and survivors of
technology abuse.  


Lectures: Wednesdays, 9:30am-10:45am

Classroom: Bloomberg Center 161

Instructor: Tom Ristenpart (https://rist.tech.cornell.edu)

Office hours: By appointment

TA: Diana Freed dlf92@cornell.edu (https://infosci.cornell.edu/content/freed)

Office hours: By appointment


### Pre-requisites

Students should have knowledge of contemporary consumer technologies
(smartphones, social networking apps, etc.).

### Requirements

The class will involve a combination of lectures, in-class exercises, readings,
and homeworks. Readings for a lecture should be completed before lecture. All homework assignments should be submitted by midnight of the Sunday prior to the next class meeting. You'll be graded according to the following:

* Participation: 20%
* Homeworks:  80% (each homework will count an equal amount)

There will likely be opportunities for extra credit, as well.  

For those taking a third unit via independent study, there will additionally be
a course project. You will receive the same grade across both independent study
and the 2-unit portion fo the course. Grading will be broken down according to
the following:

* Participation: 20%
* Homeworks: 50% (each homework will count an equal amount)
* Project: 30%





### Background reading and Lecture notes

For an easy introduction to some of the issues, check out a mainstream [press article we wrote](https://www.vox.com/the-big-idea/2018/5/21/17374434/intimate-partner-violence-spyware-domestic-abusers-apple-google),
  and some
  [coverage of our work](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/19/technology/phone-apps-stalking.html)
   in the NY Times. These articles provide a good overview of a subset of the
  tech issues we will discuss in the class, namely spyware. For more in-depth discussion, see our 
  [IPV Tech Research group website](https://ipvtechresearch.org/) and [research papers](https://www.ipvtechresearch.org/post/publications/). 




## Lecture schedule

A very preliminary schedule is shown below. It will be updated with topics and associated
readings as we progress.

| Date |  Topic  |  Speaker | Readings | Homework | Slides |
|------|---------|----------|----------|----------|--------|
| Aug 29 | Intro & overview | Tom | | [Slides](slides/intro.pdf) |
| Sep 5 | IPV 101  | Hannah Pennington (OCDV) | [Freed et al. 2018](https://www.ipvtechresearch.org/pubs/a046-freed.pdf)  | [HW1](https://github.com/freed18/IPVpedia/wiki/Homework-1) due 9/2 by midnight|
| Sep 12 | Device monitoring   | Tom  | [Freed et al. 2018](https://www.ipvtechresearch.org/pubs/stalkers-paradise-intimate.pdf) | |
| Sep 19 | Spyware apps   |  Tom | [Chatterjee et al. 2018](https://www.ipvtechresearch.org/pubs/spyware.pdf) | |
| Sep 26 | TBA   | Andrew Sta. Ana (New York Law School, Day One)| |
| Oct 3 | Internet of things | Tom  |  |
| Oct 10 | Account compromise | Tom   | |
| Oct 17 | Abusive messages/content  | Tom  |
| Oct 24 | Information disclosure  (``doxxing'', non-consensual intimate imagery, fake accounts) | Tom  | | |
| Oct 31 |  Online harassment cases, the law | [Carrie Goldberg](http://www.cagoldberglaw.com/)  | | |
| Nov 7 | TBA |   | | |
| Nov 14 |Prosecuting stalking and other abuse  | Michelle Kaminsky (Kings County DA)  | | |
| Nov 21 | TBA  |  | | |
| Nov 28 |  TBA  |  | | |
